Add new properties to the metadata API (#3562)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/api/metadata_api.md

weight: 1100
---

> Dapr has a metadata API that returns information about the sidecar allowing runtime discoverability. The metadata endpoint returns the runtime version, a list of the resources (components and HttpEndpoints loaded), the activated actors (if present), subscriptions, enabled features, app connection details, and attributes with information attached.

Reviewer: This raises the issue, of the need to return a list of the resiliency policies as well, which is missing.

```suggestion
Dapr has a metadata API that returns information about the sidecar allowing runtime discoverability. The metadata endpoint returns the following information.
- Runtime version
- List of the loaded resources (`components`, `subscriptions` and `HttpEndpoints`)
- Registered actor types
- Features enabled
- Application connection details
- Custom, ephemeral attributes with information.
```

Author: @msfussell interesting idea, do you have any specific usecase in mind and how much details should the metadata API expose? Just the name of the registered policies? targets?

State Store    | ETAG, TRANSACTION, ACTOR, QUERY_API
Binding        | INPUT_BINDING, OUTPUT_BINDING

### HTTPEndpoints
Each loaded `HttpEndpoint` provides a name to easily identify the Dapr resource associated with the runtime.

### Subscriptions

> The metadata API returns a list of pubsub subscriptions that the app has registered with the Dapr runtime. This includes the pubsub name, topic, routes, deadletter topic, and the metadata associated with the subscription.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The metadata API returns a list of pub/sub subscriptions that the app has registered with the Dapr runtime. This includes the pub/sub name, topic, routes, dead letter topic, and the metadata associated with the subscription.
```

### Enabled features

> A list of features enabled during build time, this does not include the features from Configuration spec.

Author: FYI @ItalyPaleAle

Reviewer 3: It’s actually the features from the config spec!

Reviewer 3: I just realized I may have picked the wrong variable. The intent was to have those from configurarion (which does include the build time flags)

Author: No problem - I have converted https://github.com/dapr/dapr/pull/6537 to draft for now, I will update the docs once your changes are in.

Reviewer 3: Done

Author: The original PR and docs have been updated.

### App connection details
The metadata API returns information related to Dapr's connection to the app. This includes the app port, protocol, host, max concurrency, along with health check details.

### Attributes

> The metadata API allows you to store additional attribute information in the format of key-value pairs. These are ephemeral in-memory and are not persisted if a sidecar is reloaded. This information should be added at the time of a sidecar creation, for example, after the application has started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The metadata API allows you to store additional attribute information in the format of key-value pairs. These are ephemeral in-memory and are not persisted if a sidecar is reloaded. This information should be added at the time of a sidecar creation (for example, after the application has started).
```

Name                   | Type                                                                  | Description
----                   | ----                                                                  | -----------
id                     | string                                                                | Application ID
runtimeVersion         | string                                                                | Version of the Dapr runtime
actors                 | [Metadata API Response Registered Actor](#metadataapiresponseactor)[] | A json encoded array of registered actors metadata.
extended.attributeName | string                                                                | List of custom attributes as key-value pairs, where key is the attribute name.
components             | [Metadata API Response Component](#metadataapiresponsecomponent)[]    | A json encoded array of loaded components metadata.
httpEndpoints          | [Metadata API Response HttpEndpoint](#metadataapiresponsehttpendpoint)[] | A json encoded array of loaded HttpEndpoints metadata.

> subscriptions          | [Metadata API Response Subscription](#metadataapiresponsesubscription)[] | A json encoded array of pubsub subscriptions metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subscriptions          | [Metadata API Response Subscription](#metadataapiresponsesubscription)[] | A json encoded array of pub/sub subscriptions metadata.
```

name    | string | Name of the component.
type    | string | Component type.
version | string | Component version.
capabilities | array | Supported capabilities for this component type and version.

<a id="metadataapiresponsehttpendpoint"></a>**Metadata API Response HttpEndpoint**

Name    | Type   | Description
----    | ----   | -----------
name    | string | Name of the HttpEndpoint.

<a id="metadataapiresponsesubscription"></a>**Metadata API Response Subscription**

Name            | Type   | Description
----            | ----   | -----------

> pubsubname      | string | Name of the pubsub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pubsubname      | string | Name of the pub/sub.
```
